The math itself,
completely debunks the mainstream explanation for how the ancient Egyptians were
able to construct the great pyramid of Giza and how long it took them to do. So.
And in this video,
I'm gonna share with you a few short video clips of the most common methods
described by mainstream archeologists, Egyptologists,
and academics for how the ancient are able to cut and carve these stones.
So you can see firsthand with your own eyes,
just how flawed these methods truly are. Now,
depending on what source you look at the timeframes vary on how long it took the
ancient Egyptians to construct the great pyramid of Giza ranging from 10 to 30
years. However, 20 years is the most commonly accepted timeframe.
It's what they teach in school 20 years to cut, carve, move,
and perfectly place. Approximately 2.5 million stone blocks.
That's equivalent to one block every two minutes and six seconds.
The precision of these two and a half million stone blocks is incredible.
Not even a razor or a pin needle can fit between them.
And just to remind a ourselves, each block has six sides.
I don't mean to be patronizing,
but just as a visual reminder that each block would've had to been perfect on
all six sides. And although the size of these stone blocks did vary.
The average size was 50 inches by 50 inches by 27.
And you can see here the metric conversion on the screen,
but this of course does not include some of the blocks that are absolutely
massive to give us a better appreciation of the massive scale of the great
pyramid.
It's more than 755 feet long at its base and is made up of more than
200 layers. And each layer had to be absolutely perfect.
Each block had to be laid down in place down to a fraction of a millimeter.
Otherwise the entire pyramid would not have nearly as precise as it is out of
these two and a half million stone blocks.
A significant majority of them are made up of limestone.
And one of the most common methods described by Egyptologists is that the
Egyptians use stone hammers and bronze chisels to cut and carve these stones.
And real quick, if you're not familiar, bronze is a makeup of copper and tin.
Let me jump a into the first video clip, which includes mark Laneer.
One of the most leading authorities on Egyptology and the works of the pyramids
and the spanks.
And you'll find his name cited in almost every single textbook throughout the
world regarding these subjects in this video,
you'll see that they tried and cut and carve one limestone block down to half
the size of the great Finks, his nose and real quick,
you'll see sub captions in this video. Those are not my words.
That's from the person that uploaded this and I'll include the link to that
seven minute video in the description. However,
I edit it down to show just the highlights and this clip is about 55 seconds
long. Here we go.
But even with reinforcement and after hours of pounding,
they barely made a dent.
After days of work,
their copper chisels and stone pounders are barely making a dent.
Brown is wearing down tools at an extraordinary rate.
The copper chisel,
the ancient Egyptians would've used last only a few dozen strikes.
The heating pounding cycle is repeated over and over ready. I'm ready. Yep.
Until the of shape is just right.
They must have amassed more copper for building the great pyramid in this faith
than just about any place in the world. In the third millennium BC. I mean,
it just must have been a huge cost in.
Copper. Wow. So just a few dozen strikes per chisel.
And then you saw how long it takes to him to reshape this thing. I mean,
heating it and cooling it several times, an incredibly lengthy period of time.
And you heard mark Layner himself discuss how the Egyptians would've had a
massive amount of copper chisels,
which hasn't been found and I'll touch on that point later in this video.
And by the way, they didn't even finish this project.
They brought in power tools and it took professional those more than two weeks
to cut and carve this nose. Now, like I mentioned,
a significant majority of the great pyramid is made up of limestone blocks.
However, the internal structure is made up of granite.
This includes the internal passageways, the massive grand gallery,
the Queen's chamber, as well as the King's chamber itself. And these blocks,
many of them are more than 70 tons and seemingly have laser cut precision.
So here's a quick 22nd clip on using bronze chisels on granite,
which is significantly stronger than limestone. When Roger.
Tries chiseled made from bronze, the results are disappointing.
As you can see,
we're just leaving a lot of metal and very little stone is flaky.
So regardless of whether we're talking limestone or granite,
the bronze chisel stone hammer theory is debunked. It doesn't make sense.
It doesn't compute based on the time and the precision.
So this brings me back to the question on where are all the bronze chisels now,
why have they found so few, I'm trying to find a specific number,
but have they found even more than a few dozen of these things throughout the
entire country of Egypt? I mean, if anyone has a specific number, please share,
I've been trying to research this for myself,
but clearly they would've had to have had hundreds of thousands of these tools.
I mean, two dozen strikes per chisel,
and it takes much longer than most people realize to reshape it.
I think the most logical explanation of why they're not finding so many bronze
chisels is the fact they just weren't using these as the primary method to cut
and carve tens of millions of stone blocks.
This brings me on to a more common and popular theory,
which is utilizing copper and bronze saws to cut through these stones.
And as you can see here,
these are clip art images provided by Egypt on the theory of using copper saws
to cut through stone.
So let me show you the next video clip that shows them trying to utilize copper
saws on granite. All right. We.
Have a big block of granite here, so how's this copper gonna cut this granite,
even.
With teeth, the copper alone is too soft.
We're going to put sand inside the groove and we're going to put this so on top
of the sand and then let the sand do the cutting.
Now, Dennis, when we see any progress in our lifetime. Yes. Um,
if you came back in an hour's time,
you would see about a four millimeter crop down into the stone. You're kidding.
In an hour, you'll be four millimeters down. Well,
I've been doing a lot of experiments and I can guarantee that this will cook
through the stone. That's about four millimeters an hour.
The sign went wonderful. Once we switched over using, uh, water with the sand.
As you can see here, we achieved this in just a few days.
Four millimeters an hour, that's equivalent to about one sixth of one inch.
And although they said it went much quicker while using water,
they didn't specify how much quicker. I mean, was it twice as fast?
Was it even that much? This just assumed that it was six to times as fast.
So one inch an hour that still doesn't compute whatsoever.
And this doesn't include the fact that they've never found a copper saw of this
size anywhere throughout ancient Egypt. In fact,
you won't even find any depictions of it through wall paintings, hieroglyphs,
petroglyphs, nowhere. In fact,
the only art that you'll find is just a few different images where they have
these smaller copper saws and they utilize them to cut wood.
And as you can see here, here's the best example I could find of a copper saw.
And look at that that's not even a two foot blade, is that even 18 inches,
maybe 20 inches altogether.
And we're supposed to believe that these small saws and I'll show you more
examples of them in just a moment we're used to cut and carve even an average
size block. I mean,
nevermind the much larger stone blocks frowned throughout the pyramid of Giza.
But again, that video is showing you cutting through granite.
So let me show you a different video clip of people using hand saws to cut
through limestone blocks.
And although this video has nothing to do with Egyptology whatsoever,
these are just some old school guys that show you that you can use hand saws to
cut through limestone. Well, you here's the video clip.
So a couple notable points right off the bat is,
did you see how long those saws were?
They must have been longer than five feet not to mention they were not made up
of copper whatsoever.
And also take a look at the aggressive cross-cut teeth that these saws had.
Clearly the ancient Egyptians had nothing like this.
There's not one single bit of evidence to suggest it.
And it's worth mentioning that the finished product isn't perfect at all.
I mean, yeah, there are some very straight lines,
but when you look at the block as a whole, it's just not perfect.
So they would've had a gun back over it with what bronze chisels. Again,
another point worth mentioning is how difficult the sign becomes when you get
down to the base of the block. I mean, take, for example,
the limestone query located right there on the Giza plateau. Imagine with,
I mean the that's right on bedrock. Look how little room you have to work with.
How could you cut the base of that stone block and not to mention,
as you see here,
these other examples of these bronze saws found throughout ancient Egypt.
I mean, they're incredibly short.
None of them exceed two feet long and I'm under the impression. I mean,
have they even found a dozen of these things ever? Does anyone have an estimate?
These are all the examples I could find pictures of,
but it really raises a lot of questions.
Clearly this method just does not compute and not to mention the complete lack
of evidence to support it.
Are we supposed to believe that this would've been a method utilized to be able
to cut, carve,
move in place perfectly one block every two minutes in six seconds, guys,
it doesn't add up. Let me me transition into another example,
which is utilizing wood wedges that are soaked in water in order to split apart
massive stone blocks. And there is evidence of this, as you can see here,
these are examples from the S one quarry,
which is about 500 miles from the great pyramids. First,
it must be mentioned that the soaked wood would not provide nearly as a precise
cut as using chisels.
So modern times you can see people doing it here in these examples,
these photos,
but the end product does not justify the incredible precision of the stone
blocks at the great pyramid of Giza.
Are we supposed to believe that they would've gone back over that stone block
with bronze chisels and copper saws all over again,
when we've already seen that those methods don't work anyhow and not to mention
a complete lack of evidence on the Giza plateau to support that this is the
method that they were utilizing. Yes, the ancient Egyptians did do this.
We have evidence at the Ason qu again,
but nothing to justify two and a half million stone blocks, not at all.
And we have to remind ourselves that we're only discussing the great pyramid of
Giza. There are between 118 and 138 pyramids scattered throughout Egypt.
And in fact,
this is isn't even updated because as I mentioned in other videos just earlier
this year, they found an entirely new pyramid in ruins under the sands of Egypt,
which again, raises all kinds of questions. But for hundreds of pyramids,
we're talking tens of millions of stone blocks.
And if they can't compute these or finish or construct one pyramid in the 20,
30 year timeframe, it completely debunks the entire near. Now.
I certainly don't think that everything is a conspiracy or a coverup,
but we have to start asking serious questions.
When the leading authorities on the topic of Egyptology whose works are
published and textbooks all over the world regarding the pyramids and the Finks,
and these individuals have seen firsthand with their own eyes that none of these
methods compute.
And yet they've done nothing to who bring this up or raise the question of
developing new theories and asking new questions instead to keep pushing the
same narrative. They're teaching this in school right now.
They're handing out PhDs with these methods and nobody seems to be thinking for
themselves to just try them and to make this even more disturbing.
This same guy,
mark Laneer seems to be going along with this 10 year timeframe he's doubling
down instead of acknowledging that these methods don't work,
he's going along with a possible 10 year timeframe that's been discussed by
other Egyptologists. What is going on?
It's time we start asking serious questions about it, but I'll leave it at that.
Leave me at common. Let me know what your thoughts are, but like, and subscribe.
I'm Jimmy. This is bright insight,
many more videos to come on a whole wide variety of topics. Take care,
everybody.